# Research Ethics and Quality

Ethical research includes participant protections, appropriate use of intellectual property, professional conduct, clear communication, and the avoidance of research misconduct (falsification, fabrication, and plagiarism), management of bias, and efforts to ensure the academic integrity of research findings. All researchers and research institutions must be cognizant of conducting research in an ethically sound manner. Research universities have Institutional Review Boards (IRBs) in place to protect the rights, safety, and well-being of research study participants. The IRB also monitors the ethical conduct of individual researchers and research teams to prevent misleading data collection practices, intentional and unintentional falsification of data or results, plagiarism, improper data storage practices, and misleading authorship issues.

Each researcher must abide by strict research protocols to help ensure the integrity of the research project and its outcomes. Protocols include specific guidelines for minimizing researcher bias, protecting participants' identity, obtaining informed consent, quality assurance and control measures, as well as data management procedures and other details on how to document and resolve issues that may raise ethical concerns.

The transdisciplinary nature of constructive research and its goal of building practical knowledge as derived by the interaction of users with artifacts contribute to the quality of findings. Moreover, the generation of knowledge useful to individuals and the society at large raises the level of quality expected from such research to include aspects typically not considered academic research, such as the competitiveness of a solution on the market and its environmental impact on top of its value in understanding phenomena.
